# R2IP0006: Open-Source, P2P messenger without centralized server that works in a local network.

Tron Protocol is intended to be used as a carrier for any kind of data. You would need a decentralized email service that won’t be able to read your letters for its product placement tricks (side effect: NSA won’t spy me). This service provides something average between classical email and classical chat, the messages will be received by me only if I keep node software running. If I can’t run such software I can pay to retrieve (encrypted) letters from nodes that provide storage service in exchange for tokens. We are looking for your ideas regarding the types of services you need, so I could merge some of these services with mine.

The above quote from the blockchain summit in Tel Aviv, Israel forum was stated by Anthony Kudaev at the end of 2017. In this quote Anthony expressed the need for a decentralized email service that won’t be able to read his letters. We're hoping to build a platform to provide that service, by creating an open source and community-maintained secure email and live chat service on top of the Tron Protocol.

## Background

Email is one of the most widely used services after the internet today. The first email system was created in 1971, and today more than 281 billion emails are sent every day; by the year of 2022 it is estimated to grow to more than 333 billion. It is also proved that 49.7% - almost half of all emails - are considered being spam.

At present there are few large organizations for which the majority of email messages are sent to or received from. The top organization is Apple; having a 29% share of the global email client market with its iPhone email client. Google comes in second with Gmail, which has 27% share of the global email client market; 1.5 billion Gmail users. Google reports that approximately 70% of the incoming messages are classified as Promotions by Gmail.

## Dilemma

The dilemma with the present email service is that a few big players have access to the majority of all emails sent. This does not fit in a privacy first ideology, and it certainly doesn’t mean that we own our own data. By using a centralized email service such as Gmail, we are giving large organizations access to our private data. And there is a lot of data - in the current internet ecosystem we use our emails as an identity; to register accounts on almost all websites; to receive important notifications; private communications and much more. The data is not always sold, but the means to advertise to certain groups based on their data can be.

## Quick Fix

The quick fix of the problem mentioned above, is to create a decentralized and private email platform that only the sender and the receiver can read. However, it also needs to be user-friendly, easily usable and inter operable with existing clients.

To achieve this, Reyna2Chat will create its email and chat platform on the decentralized and distributed nature of Tron Network. Everybody will then have a choice to make whether to run an open source server or to conclude which public servers they will trust in.

## Vision

The vision of Reyna2Chat is to create decentralized platform for secure email and live chat on top of the Tron Protocol. That fits the following criteria:

## Private

All messages sent will be encrypted and only the intended receivers will be able to unencrypted the message.

## Open Source

The platform will be open source assuming that all source code will be online, visible to the public and free to download and use.

## Community Maintained

The platform will be hosted on GitHub where it is encouraged that the TRON community will help in maintaining the platform. Further to this we hope to be able to undertake the responsibility of a live chat service that is actively maintained by the community.

## Interoperable

The email service will be inter operable with current email clients where possible.

## Advance

Research email standards, protocols and architecture.
Brainstorm and analyze how we can modify the current email (internet) architecture for TRON.
List the problems that we might face during our work.
Explore and solve the listed problems.
Define protocols for transmitting emails via the tangle.
Design new email processing model.
Develop ICT modules for a decentralized mail server.
Develop lightweight mail user agent (client)
Enhance...

## Getting Involved

If you would like to get involved you can reach out on the following:

#### Discord: justanthonyhero#0187
#### Twitter: https://twitter.com/reyna2limited
#### GitHub: https://github.com/reyna2limited
